[master][KOGITO-1490] - Improve Kogito images README file (#134)
kiegroup/kogito-images: README.md

[![GitHub Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/kiegroup/kogito-images.svg)](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-images/network/members)
[![Pull Requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/kiegroup/kogito-images.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-images/pulls)
[![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/kiegroup/kogito-images.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-images/graphs/contributors)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/kiegroup/kogito-images.svg)](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-images/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/kogito_kie.svg?label=Follow&style=social)](https://twitter.com/kogito_kie?lang=en)

# Kogito Container Images

To be able to efficiently execute Kogito services on the Cloud there's a need to have Container Images so it can played
smoothly on any Kubernetes player. There are few sets images which are divided in three different groups which are 
the components, builder and runtime images.

Table of Contents
=================

> * [Kogito Images](#kogito-container-images) - ok

Author: oops, left over hehe

    * GraalVM 19.3.1 Java 11 or higher, useful to test Kogito apps on native mode before create a Container image with it.
    * [OpenShift Cli](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.3/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html)
        
        
## Kogito Runtime and Builder Images

Today, the Kogito images are divided, basically in 2 vectors when we talk about images that would be used to assemble or run
Kogito applications. Which are Runtime and Builder images, they are described bellow.

### Builder Images

The Builder image is responsible for building the project with Apache Maven and generate the binary that will be used to run the
Kogito application. The Quarkus builder image allows you to create native image using GraalVM which allows you to have
lightweight and fast applications ready to run on Cloud. The available Builder images are:

* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i](kogito-quarkus-s2i-overrides.yaml)
* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8-s2i](kogito-springboot-s2i-overrides.yaml)

#### Kogito Quarkus Builder Image

The Quarkus Builder Image is equipped with the following components:

 * GraalVM 19.3.1 with openjdk 11.0.6

>  * OpenJDK 11.0.6

Author: there is also the common JDK on the builder image.
maybe to make clear that there is the GraalVM with java 11 and openjdk, 

Or just use java 11 on graavl vm?

>  * OpenJDK 11.0.6

Reviewer: maybe it is clearer like that

>  * OpenJDK 11.0.6

Author: changed to:  GraalVM 19.3.1-java11

$ s2i build https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples.git \
    --ref master \
    --context-dir rules-quarkus-helloworld \
    quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i:latest \
    rules-example \
    --env NATIVE=false
...
[INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time:  08:37 s
[INFO] Finished at: 2020-04-06T19:13:42Z
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
---> Build finished, installing application from path /tmp/src
---> Installing jar file
'target/rules-quarkus-helloworld-runner.jar' -> '/home/kogito/bin/rules-quarkus-helloworld-runner.jar'
---> Copying application libraries
---> [s2i-core] Copy image metadata file...
'/tmp/src/target/image_metadata.json' -> '/tmp/.s2i/image_metadata.json'
'/tmp/src/target/image_metadata.json' -> '/tmp/src/.s2i/image_metadata.json'
'/tmp/src/target/image_metadata.json' -> '/home/kogito/bin/image_metadata.json'
INFO ---> [persistence] Copying persistence files...
INFO ---> [persistence] Skip copying files, persistence directory does not exist...
Build completed successfully
```

With the image built, let's test it:

```bash

> $ docker run -it -p 8080:8080 drools-example:latest

Author: did this before the kogito examples renaming, left over hehe

```bash
$ docker run -it quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8-s2i:latest /home/kogito/kogito-app-launch.sh -h
```

##### Spring Boot - Building a Simple Application

On this example, let's use a simple application available on [Kogito Examples](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples) repository.
Let's use the *process-springboot-example*.

```bash
$ s2i build https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples.git \
    --ref master \
    --context-dir \
    process-springboot-example \
    quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8-s2i:latest \
    springboot-example
```

With the image built, let's test it:

```bash
$ docker run -it -p 8080:8080 springboot-example:latest
```

On a different shell try the following commands:
```bash
$ curl -d '{"approver" : "john", "order" : {"orderNumber" : "12345", "shipped" : false}}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -X POST http://localhost:8080/orders

{"id":"10de03c0-828f-4f2e-bb3f-68c3ddfea7ec","approver":"john","order":{"orderNumber":"12345","shipped":false,"total":0.4231905542160477}}✔

$ curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/orders
$ curl -X DELETE http://localhost:8080/orders/10de03c0-828f-4f2e-bb3f-68c3ddfea7ec
```

> ### Improving Build Time

Author: correct.

than the incremental.

### Runtime Images

The Runtime image is responsible for just running the fat jar taken from the Builder image or by doing a binary build
which consists in basically copy your pre-built application into the Runtime image. 
It has JRE installed on the container to allow to execute java applications. With this approach we can have smaller 
and compact images that does not carry on any of the build tools or artifacts (like local maven repository).

Today we have the following Runtime Images:

* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8](kogito-quarkus-jvm-overrides.yaml)
* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8](kogito-quarkus-overrides.yaml)
* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8](kogito-springboot-overrides.yaml)

#### Binary Builds

Binary builds allows you to quick copy the built artifacts into the target *Runtime Image* saving the time needed to build
the final image using the source to image method.

Below are the supported source structure:

- kjar maven project
- assets only

Both methods will be described in the next topic.

##### Kjar maven project

> [KJAR](https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2018/03/14/what-is-a-kjar/) stands for Knowledge jar which is a custom JAR file that contains Business Process or Rules and all needed 

Author: I think KJAR is correct, will update other occurences to upper case.

dependencies and or files to execute it on the target runtime, either Quarkus or Spring Boot.

If you don't have a already existing project, the best way to create a new one is to use Kogito Maven Archetypes 
to generate project structure, the available archetypes are:

> - [Kogito Quarkus archetype](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/tree/master/archetypes/kogito-quarkus-archetype)

Author: Ar... is better

- [Kogito SpringBoot archetype](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/tree/master/archetypes/kogito-springboot-archetype)

> Note that, when building Quarkus based application that's **not** a *UberJAR* we also need to copy the **target/lib** 

Author: maybe keep targe is better to specify where the lib directory can be found?

> Note that, when building Quarkus based application that's **not** a *UberJAR* we also need to copy the **target/lib** 

Author: changed to ```
Note that, when building Quarkus based application that's **not** a *UberJAR* we also need to copy the **lib** directory
located inside the *target* directory. ```

let me know if it looks ok

Examples on how to use this feature can be found in the next topics.

##### Assets only

> 

Reviewer: This source structure assumes `that` there is

> This source structure assumes there is no maven project but only business assets stored either directly in the top folder 

Reviewer: but only business assets`,` stored either directly

or grouped into directories.

> Business assets are:

Reviewer: Types of Business assets can be:

> - Business Process definition - bpmn2 or just bpmn

Reviewer: ```
- Business Process definition - bpmn2 or just bpmn files
- Business Rule definition - drl files
- Business Decision definition - dmn files
```

- Business Rule definition - drl
- Business Decision definition - dmn

> Upon build these assets will be copied to generated maven project and built with maven to produce the runnable binary.

Reviewer: Upon build, these assets will be copied to a generated maven project and built with Maven to produce a runnable binary.

Examples on how to use this feature can be found in the next topics.

#### Kogito Quarkus JVM Runtime Image

> This is a lightweight and compact application container image and contains basically only the JRE.

Reviewer: and `it` contains basically only the JRE.

> This Runtime image is considered a runtime image as it only contains the needed

Reviewer: This Kogito Runtime Image contains only the needed files to execute a pre built Kogito application.

files used to execute a pre built Kogito application.

> This image can be used without the image builder, this image has the ability to copy

Reviewer: This is redundant with Binary builds explained earlier

built artifacts and files into the image so you can perform faster image builds to test your application.

> ##### Image usage

Reviewer: `##### Kogito Quarkus JVM Runtime Image usage`

> This image contains a help message to better understand how to use this image:

Reviewer: a helper option

```bash
docker run -it quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8:latest /home/kogito/kogito-app-launch.sh -h
```

In the next few lines let's take a look on how this image can be used to receive an already built UberJAR.
To configure Quarkus to generate a UberJAR please follow the instructions described [here](https://quarkus.io/guides/maven-tooling#configuration-reference)

> For this example lets use the [process-quarkus-example](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-quarkus-example)

Reviewer: `For this example lets use the [process-quarkus-example](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-quarkus-example).`

> Once you have checked the example on your local machine follow the steps below:

Reviewer: Once you have checked the example on your local machine follow the steps below.

Example with UberJAR
```bash
# build the example using uberjar reference
$ mvn clean package -Dquarkus.package.uber-jar

> # inspect and running the generated uberjar, for instructions on how to use this example se its README file.

Reviewer: `inspect and run`

$ java -jar target/jbpm-quarkus-example-8.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner.jar 

> # performing a source to image build

Reviewer: `performing a source to image build to copy the artifacts to the runtime image`

> $ s2i build target/ quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8:latest process-quarkus-example

Reviewer: we should copy here only the jar ... otherwise, there is not much difference with the non-uberjar example

Author: there's no need, the runtime image will remove everything that's not needed.
but yeah, we might should move the uberjar to another directory and copy the jar from there.

Author: looks like s2i command allows you to specify a single file to build.

# run the generated image
$ docker run -p 8080:8080 -it process-quarkus-example

# On another shell do a simple post request 
curl -d '{"approver" : "john", "order" : {"orderNumber" : "12345", "shipped" : false}}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:8080/orders

#repare the container logs the following message:
Order has been created Order[12345] with assigned approver JOHN
```

Example with non uberjar
```bash
# for non uberjar the process is the same, but only need to remove the property from Quarkus configuration
# to not generated uberjar.
$ mvn clean package

```

> Note that this time there is a lib on the **target directory**, the s2i build will take care of copy it to the correct place, just

Reviewer: `take care of copying it`

perform a build:

```bash
$ s2i build target/ quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8:latest process-quarkus-example-non-uberjar
$ docker run -p 8080:8080 -it process-quarkus-example-non-uberjar

# On another shell do a simple post request 
$ curl -d '{"approver" : "john", "order" : {"orderNumber" : "12345", "shipped" : false}}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:8080/orders

#repare the container logs the following message:
Order has been created Order[12345] with assigned approver JOHN
```

#### Kogito Quarkus Native Runtime Image

This Runtime image is considered a runtime image as it only contains the needed
files used to execute a pre built Kogito application.

This is a lightweight and compact application container image.

This image can be used without the image builder, this image has the ability to copy
built artifacts and files into the image so you can perform faster image builds to test your application.

##### Image usage

This image contains a help message to better understand how to use this image:

```bash
docker run -it quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8:latest /home/kogito/kogito-app-launch.sh -h
```

> 

Reviewer: `##### Kogito Quarkus Native Runtime Image example`

-----> Cleaning up unneeded jar files
...
---> Installing application binaries
'./process-quarkus-example-8.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner' -> '/home/kogito/bin/process-quarkus-example-8.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner'
...

# run the output image
$ docker run -it -p 8080:8080 binary-test-example-3

# on another terminal, interact with the kogito service
$ curl -d '{"approver" : "john", "order" : {"orderNumber" : "12345", "shipped" : false}}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:8080/orders

#repare the container logs the following message:
Order has been created Order[12345] with assigned approver JOHN
```

#### Kogito Spring Boot Runtime Image

This S2I is considered a runtime image builder as it relies on another image
(built with `kogito-springboot-ubi8-s2i`) that actually produced the binaries to be executed. 
So this one will only get the binaries and place into the container.

On top of the OS it has JRE installed (OpenJDK 11) to be able to execute fat jar.

This image can be used without the image builder, this image has the ability to copy
built artifacts and files into the image so you can perform faster image builds to test your application.

> ##### Image usage

Reviewer: `#### Kogito Spring Boot Runtime Image usage`

> This image contains a help message to better understand how to use this image:

Reviewer: a helper option

```bash
docker run -it quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8:latest /home/kogito/kogito-app-launch.sh -h
```

> 

Reviewer: `#### Kogito Spring Boot Runtime Image example`

For this example let's use the *process-springboot-example*: 

```bash
$ mvn clean package
```

> Note that a binary was generated on the **target directory**, let's use this binary to perform the source-to-image build:

Reviewer: ```
A uberjar file has been generated into the **target directory**.
Let's use this uberjar to perform the build:
```

-----> [s2i-core] Running runtime assemble script
-----> Binary build enabled, artifacts were uploaded directly to the image build
-----> Cleaning up unneeded jar files
removed 'process-springboot-example-tests.jar'
removed 'process-springboot-example-sources.jar'
removed 'process-springboot-example-test-sources.jar'
-----> Copying uploaded files to /home/kogito
---> [s2i-core] Copy image metadata file...
'/tmp/src/./image_metadata.json' -> '/tmp/.s2i/image_metadata.json'
'/tmp/src/./image_metadata.json' -> '/tmp/src/.s2i/image_metadata.json'
'/tmp/src/./image_metadata.json' -> '/home/kogito/bin/image_metadata.json'
---> Installing application binaries
'./process-springboot-example.jar' -> '/home/kogito/bin/process-springboot-example.jar'
...

# run the output image
$ docker run -it -p 8080:8080 spring-binary-example

# on another terminal, interact with the kogito service
$ curl -d '{"approver" : "john", "order" : {"orderNumber" : "12345", "shipped" : false}}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:8080/orders

#repare the container logs the following message:
Order has been created Order[12345] with assigned approver JOHN
```

## Kogito Component Images

> The Components images can be considered lightweight images that will complement the Kogito core engine by providing

Reviewer: The Kogito Component Images can be considered as lightweight images that will complement the Kogito core engine by providing extra capabilities, like managing the processes on a web UI or providing persistence layer to the Kogito applications.

extra capabilities like managing the processes on a web UI, or providing persistence layer to the Kogito services as well.

> Today we have 3 components images:

Reviewer: Today we have 3 Kogito Component Images:

* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-data-index](kogito-data-index-overrides.yaml)
* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-jobs-service](kogito-jobs-service-overrides.yaml)
* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-management-console](kogito-management-console-overrides.yaml)

### Kogito Data Index Component Image

> This service aims for capturing and indexing data produced by one more Kogito runtime services.

Reviewer: The Data Index Service aims

For more information please visit this (link)(https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/wiki/Data-Index-Service). 

> It depends on a Running Infinispan Server.

Reviewer: The Data Index Service depends on a running Infinispan Server.

> The [Kogito Operator](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-cloud-operator) can be used to to deploy data index capabilities to Kogito Services 

Reviewer: `The [Kogito Operator](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-cloud-operator) can be used to deploy the Kogito Data Index Service to your Kogito infrastructure on a Kubernetes cluster and provide its capabilities to your Kogito applications`

on a Kubernetes which will automatically configuring anything for you.

Basic usage
```bash
$ docker run -it --env QUARKUS_INFINISPAN_CLIENT_SERVER_LIST=my-infinispan-server:11222 quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-data-index:latest
```

To enable debug just use this env while running this image:

```bash
docker run -it --env SCRIPT_DEBUG=true --env QUARKUS_INFINISPAN_CLIENT_SERVER_LIST=my-infinispan-server:11222 quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-data-index:latest
```
You should notice a few debug messages being printed in the system output.

To know what configurations this image accepts please take a look [here](kogito-data-index-overrides.yaml) on the **envs** section.

> TODO: add the envs inherited from another modules

Reviewer: TODO ?

Author: letfover.

### Kogito Jobs Service Component Image

> Kogito Job Service is a dedicated lightweight service responsible for scheduling jobs that aim to be fired at a given time. 

Reviewer: The Kogito Jobs Service [...]

> The service does not execute the job itself, it triggers a callback that could be an HTTP request on a given endpoint 

Reviewer: It does not execute the job itself but it triggers a callback that could be an HTTP request on a given endpoint specified on the job request, or any other callback that could be supported by the service.

specified on the job request, or any other callback that could be supported by the service.

> For more information please access this (link)[https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/wiki/Job-Service]

Reviewer: `please visit this link`

> The [Kogito Operator](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-cloud-operator) can be used to to deploy data index capabilities to Kogito Services 

Reviewer: `The [Kogito Operator](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-cloud-operator) can be used to deploy the Kogito Jobs Service to your Kogito infrastructure on a Kubernetes cluster and provide its capabilities to your Kogito applications`

on a Kubernetes which will automatically configuring anything for you.

Basic usage:

```bash
$ docker run -it quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-jobs-service:latest
```

To enable debug just use this env while running this image:

```bash
docker run -it --env SCRIPT_DEBUG=true quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-jobs-service:latest
```
You should notice a few debug messages being printed in the system output.

To know what configurations this image accepts please take a look [here](kogito-jobs-service-overrides.yaml) on the **envs** section.

### Kogito Management Console Component Image

> The Management Console allows you to have a intuitive way to manage your Kogito Processes in execution.

Reviewer: The Kogito Management Console

> It depends on a Kogito Data Index service which the Console will connect so it can be able to manage it. 

Reviewer: It depends on the Kogito Data Index Service on which the Console will connect to so it can be able to manage it.

Keep in mind that when using the [Process Instance Management Add-on](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/wiki/Process-Instance-Management) 
it will enable your Kogito service be manageable through rest

> API.

Reviewer 2: A few quick points:

* "Kogito processes" lower case
* "Data Index Service" upper case
* Process instance management add-on - You're linking to the runtimes wiki, which we are retiring. Instead, link to this section in the new Kogito docs: https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con_bpmn-process-instance-management_kogito-developing-process-services  For any other cross-refs that you use throughout to the runtimes wiki, change to point instead to the Kogito docs page. That page contains 100% of the wiki content now, plus a lot more. But minus the "Developer workflow" intro sections that are now mostly obsolete anyway.
* "REST API" upper case

Author: Thanks, I updated the wiki link, but for jobs services it still pointing to the wiki as I didn't find it on the docs you mentioned.

> The [Kogito Operator](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-cloud-operator) can be used to to deploy data index capabilities to Kogito Services 

Reviewer: `The [Kogito Operator](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-cloud-operator) can be used to deploy the Kogito Management Console to your Kogito infrastructure on a Kubernetes cluster and provide its capabilities to your Kogito applications`

on a Kubernetes which will automatically configuring anything for you.

> If the Data Index url is not provided or not available on the default one (http://localhost:8180) the Management Console

Reviewer: To work correctly, the Kogito Management Console needs the Kogito Data Index Service url. If not provided, it will try to connect to the default one (http://localhost:8180).

> might not work properly.

Reviewer 2: "deploy the Data Index Service capabilities to Kogito services on ..."

Author: Is the suggeted change above enough?

Basic usage:

```bash
$ docker run -it --env KOGITO_DATAINDEX_HTTP_URL=data-index-service-url:9090 quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-management-console:latest

> ```

Reviewer 2: So is this the official way we want people to use and start the Console, with docker? I think that's a quick-start method only, for like examples, and last I heard we're moving away from docker and to Podman instead. This came up in Kogito docs. Do you know the more standardized steps to use the Console without relying on Docker? Such as, get a Data Index Service running, then ... what exactly?

Author: I think we already discussed in on the gchat, yes?

To enable debug just use this env while running this image:

```bash
docker run -it --env SCRIPT_DEBUG=true --env KOGITO_DATAINDEX_HTTP_URL=data-index-service-url:9090 quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-management-console:latest
```
You should notice a few debug messages being printed in the system output.

To know what configurations this image accepts please take a look [here](kogito-management-console-overrides.yaml) on the **envs** section.

> ## Contributing with Kogito Images

Reviewer: Contributing to Kogito Images repository

Before proceed please make sure you have met the [requirements](#kogito-images-requirements).

### Building Images

> To build the images for local testing there is a [Makefile](./Makefile) which will do all the hard work for you, with this

Reviewer: ```
To build the images for local testing there is a [Makefile](./Makefile) which will do all the hard work for you
With this Makefile you can:
```

Makefile you can

> - Build all images with only one command

Reviewer: Build and test all images with only one command

Author: actually it only builds, will fix the makefile on another jira.

>    - This command will build and test all images

Reviewer: Remove this line

     ```bash
     $ make
     ```
     
- Build images individually

>    - This command will build (TODO build and test together) the desired image

Reviewer: merge the 2 lines

     ```bash
     $ make kogito-quarkus-ubi8
     $ make kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8
     $ make kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i
     $ make kogito-springboot-ubi8 
     $ make kogito-springboot-ubi8-s2i
     $ make kogito-data-index
     $ make kogito-jobs-service 
     $ make kogito-management-console
     ```
     
- Push Images to quay or a repo for you preference, for this you need to edit the Makefile accordingly

>     - this command will build and push the images to the target repository, default quay.io/kiegroup

Reviewer: Merge the 2 lines

      ```bash
      $ make push
      ```
      It will create 3 tags:

>         - 0.X-latest

Reviewer: X.Y(-latest has been removed)

>         - 0.X.X

Reviewer: X.Y.z

        - latest
        
- Push staging images (release candidates, a.k.a rcX tags)

>     - this command will build and push RC images to quay.

Reviewer: merge the 2 lines

      ```bash
      $ make push-staging
      ```
      It uses the [push-staging.py](scripts/push-staging.py) script to handle the images.

> ####Image Modules

Reviewer: `#### Image Modules`

> CeKit can use modules to better separate things and reuse these modules on different images.

Reviewer: `to better separate concerns`

> On the Kogito Images we have several CeKit modules that are used during builds. To better understanding

Reviewer: `To better understand the CeKit Modules, please visit [...]`

CeKit Modules please visit this [link](https://docs.cekit.io/en/latest/handbook/modules).

Below you can find all modules used to build the Kogito Images

> - [kogito-data-index](modules/kogito-data-index): Installs and Configure the data-index jar inside the image.

Reviewer: Could we put each documentation line in each module as a first comment (in module.yaml for example).
That would allow to keep up-to-date documentation.
And here we just say to check each `module.yaml` file to understand what it is.
wdyt ?

Author: That's make sense, but I was thinking a little bit different, each module would have its own README documenting it and here we would refer the readme files. but I was planning to do it later.

Are you ok keeping it this way until we do what I suggested above?

Reviewer: ok

- [kogito-management-console](modules/kogito-management-console): Installs and Configure the management-console jar inside the image
- [kogito-maven](modules/kogito-maven): Installs and configure Maven on the S2I images, also provides custom configuration script.
- [kogito-openjdk](modules/kogito-openjdk): Provides OpenJDK and JRE.
- [kogito-persistence](modules/kogito-persistence): Provides the needed configuration scripts to properly configure the Kogito Services in the target image.
- [kogito-quarkus](modules/kogito-quarkus): Main module for the quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8 image.
- [kogito-quarkus-jvm](modules/kogito-quarkus-jvm): Main module for the quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8 image.
- [kogito-quarkus-s2i](modules/kogito-quarkus-s2i): Main module for the quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i image.
- [kogito-s2i-core](modules/kogito-s2i-core): Provides the source-to-image needed scripts and configurations.
- [kogito-springboot](modules/kogito-springboot): Main module for the quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8 image.
- [kogito-springboot-s2i](modules/kogito-springbot-s2i): Main module for the quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8-s2i image.

> Below you can find all images, and to see which modules each image install, please refer to the **modules** section:

Reviewer: For each image, we use a specific `*-overrides.yaml` file which will specific the modules needed.
Please see each file for the installed modules.

- [kogito-data-index-overrides.yaml](kogito-data-index-overrides.yaml)
- [kogito-jobs-service-overrides.yaml](kogito-jobs-service-overrides.yaml)
- [kogito-management-console-overrides.yaml](kogito-management-console-overrides.yaml)
- [kogito-quarkus-jvm-overrides.yaml](kogito-quarkus-jvm-overrides.yaml)
- [kogito-quarkus-overrides.yaml](kogito-quarkus-overrides.yaml)
- [kogito-quarkus-s2i-overrides.yaml](kogito-quarkus-s2i-overrides.yaml)
- [kogito-springboot-overrides.yaml](kogito-springboot-overrides.yaml)
- [kogito-springboot-s2i-overrides.yaml](kogito-springboot-s2i-overrides.yaml)

### Testing Images

> There is two kind of tests that we could run locally and also it is ran by CI, **behave** and **bats** tests.

Reviewer: `that we could run locally and also it is ran by CI` => not needed IMO

Author: +1

> 

Reviewer: `#### Behave tests`

Reviewer: move that part after bats tests and add 2 subchapters:

`##### Running behave tests`
`##### Writing behave tests`

To run all behave tests:

```bash
make test
```

> CeKit also allow you to run a specific test, suppose you are working on a new feature and add tests to cover your changes.

Reviewer: ```
CeKit also allows you to run a specific test.
See [Writing Behave Tests](#writing-behave-tests).
```

You don't want to run all existing tests, this can be easily done by adding the **@wip** tag on the behave test that you
are creating. The steps to do it will be added on the next topic: [Writing Behave Tests](#writing-behave-tests).

> 

Reviewer: `#### Bats tests`

given image, we need to annotate the test specific or the entire feature with the image name, for example, 
we have the common tests that needs to run against almost all images, instead to add the same tests for every 
image feature, we create a common feature and annotate it with the images we want that
specific test or feature to run, a example can be found on [this common test](tests/features/common.feature)

All images already have the feature files, if a new image are being created a new feature file will need to be created
and the very first line of this file would need to contain a tag with the image name.

Example, if we are creating a new image called quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-moon-service, we would have a feature called
**kogito-moon-service.feature** under the **tests/features** directory and this file will looks like with the following
example:

```text
@quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-data-index
Feature: Kogito-data-index feature.
    ...
    Scenarios......
```

For a complete list of all available sentences please refer the cekit source code:
https://github.com/cekit/behave-test-steps/tree/v1/steps

> ### Writing Bats tests

Reviewer: Put this with bats tests chapter, before behave tests

The best way to start to interact with Bats tests is take a look on its [documentation](https://github.com/sstephenson/bats) 
and after use the existing ones as example.

[Here](modules/kogito-jobs-service/tests/bats) you can find a basic example about how our Bats tests
are structured.

### Reporting new issues

For the Kogito Images we use the [Jira issue tracker](https://issues.redhat.com/projects/KOGITO) under the 
**KOGITO** project, and to specify that the issue is specific to the Kogito images, there is a component
called **Image** that should be added in this case.

When submitting the Pull Request with the fix for the reported issue, for a better readability we use the following pattern:

Create the Pull Request with the following pattern:

Pull Requests targeting only master branch:
```text
[KOGITO-XXXX] - Description of the Issue
```

But if the Pull Request also needs to be part of a different branch/version and is cherry picked from master:
```text
Master PR:
[master][KOGITO-XXXX] - Description of the Issue
[0.9.x][KOGITO-XXXX] - Description of the Issue
```

> ## Using Kogito Images to Deploy Apps on OpenShift

Reviewer: This part should be before `Contributing to` part

Author: moved.

> Once the images are built and imported into registry (quay.io or internal OpenShift registry)

Reviewer: Once the images are built and imported into a registry (quay.io or any other registry), new applications can be built and deployed within a few steps.

new applications can be built and deployed with this few steps.

### Using released images

> As first step we need to make the Kogito Images available as Image Stream on the OpenShift. If you have `cluster-admin`

Reviewer: As a first step, we need to make the Kogito Images available as Image Streams in OpenShift.

> rights you can deploy it on the **openshift** namespace, otherwise, deploy it on the namespace you have permission.

Reviewer: deploy it into the namespace where you have permissions.

It points to the latest released version.

Let's use the *rules-quarkus-helloworld* from [Kogito Examples](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples).

```bash
$ oc new-project rules-quarkus-helloworld
Now using project "rules-quarkus-helloworld" on server "https://ocp.lab.cloud:8443".

You can add applications to this project with the 'new-app' command. For example, try:

    oc new-app centos/ruby-25-centos7~https://github.com/sclorg/ruby-ex.git

to build a new example application in Ruby.

$ oc create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kiegroup/kogito-images/0.9.0/kogito-imagestream.yaml
imagestream.image.openshift.io/kogito-quarkus-ubi8 created
imagestream.image.openshift.io/kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8 created
imagestream.image.openshift.io/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i created
imagestream.image.openshift.io/kogito-springboot-ubi8 created
imagestream.image.openshift.io/kogito-springboot-ubi8-s2i created
imagestream.image.openshift.io/kogito-data-index created
imagestream.image.openshift.io/kogito-jobs-service created
imagestream.image.openshift.io/kogito-management-console created

> $ oc new-build --name=drools-helloworld-builder --image-stream=kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i:0.9.0 \ 

Reviewer: `rules-quarkus-helloworld-builder`

    https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples.git#master --context-dir=rules-quarkus-helloworld \
    --strategy=source --env NATIVE=false 
--> Found image 8c9d756 (5 days old) in image stream "rules-quarkus-helloworld/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i" under tag "0.9.0" for "kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i:0.9.0"

    Kogito based on Quarkus 
    ----------------------- 
    Platform for building Kogito based on Quarkus

    Tags: builder, kogito, quarkus

    * The source repository appears to match: jee
    * A source build using source code from https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples.git#master will be created
      * The resulting image will be pushed to image stream tag "drools-helloworld-builder:latest"
      * Use 'start-build' to trigger a new build

--> Creating resources with label build=drools-helloworld-builder ...
    imagestreamtag.image.openshift.io "drools-helloworld-builder:latest" created
    buildconfig.build.openshift.io "drools-helloworld-builder" created
--> Success
```

The build has started, you can check the logs with the following command:

```bash
$ oc logs -f bc/drools-helloworld-builder
```

> Once the build is finished, we can now create a new build to copy the generated artifact from the source to image build

Reviewer: Once the build is finished, you can now create

> to the runtime image, to do this execute the following command:

Reviewer: to the Kogito Runtime Image. To do this, execute the following command:

```bash

> $ oc new-build --name=drools-helloworld-service --source-image=drools-helloworld-builder \

Reviewer: drools-helloworld-service => rules-quarkus-helloworld-service
drools-helloworld-builder => rules-quarkus-helloworld-builder

  --source-image-path=/home/kogito/bin:. --image-stream=kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8:0.9.0
--> Found image 1608e71 (6 days old) in image stream "rules-quarkus-helloworld/kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8" under tag "0.9.0" for "kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8:0.9.0"

    Kogito based on Quarkus JVM image 
    --------------------------------- 
    Runtime image for Kogito based on Quarkus JVM image

    Tags: builder, runtime, kogito, quarkus, jvm

    * A source build using <unknown> will be created
      * The resulting image will be pushed to image stream tag "drools-helloworld-service:latest"
      * Use 'start-build' to trigger a new build

--> Creating resources with label build=drools-helloworld-service ...
    imagestream.image.openshift.io "drools-helloworld-service" created
    buildconfig.build.openshift.io "drools-helloworld-service" created
--> Success
```

Follow the logs with the following command:
```bash
$ oc logs -f bc/drools-helloworld-service
```

> Once the build gets finished, we need to create an application and use our service image created with the latested command.

Reviewer: Once the build gets finished, you need to create an application and use the service image created with the latest command.

To do it, execute the following command:

```bash

> $ oc new-app drools-helloworld-service:latest

Reviewer: drools-helloworld-service => rules-quarkus-helloworld-service

  --> Found image 664b295 (3 minutes old) in image stream "rules-quarkus-helloworld/drools-helloworld-service" under tag "latest" for "drools-helloworld-service:latest"
  
      temp.builder.openshift.io/rules-quarkus-helloworld/drools-helloworld-service-1:e8062a99 
      --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
      Runtime image for Kogito based on Quarkus JVM image
  
      Tags: builder, runtime, kogito, quarkus, jvm
  
      * This image will be deployed in deployment config "drools-helloworld-service"
      * Port 8080/tcp will be load balanced by service "drools-helloworld-service"
        * Other containers can access this service through the hostname "drools-helloworld-service"
  
  --> Creating resources ...
      deploymentconfig.apps.openshift.io "drools-helloworld-service" created
      service "drools-helloworld-service" created
  --> Success
      Application is not exposed. You can expose services to the outside world by executing one or more of the commands below:
       'oc expose svc/drools-helloworld-service' 
      Run 'oc status' to view your app.
```

> As described in the command output, to be able to access the application, we need to expose it to the external world, 

Reviewer: [...] we need to expose it to the external world. For that, just execute the command listed [...]

just execute the command listed in the output above, e.g.:

```bash
$ oc expose svc/drools-helloworld-service
```

To see the route name, just execute the following command:

```bash
$ oc get routes
NAME                        HOST/PORT                                                              PATH      SERVICES                    PORT       TERMINATION   WILDCARD

> drools-helloworld-service   drools-helloworld-service-rules-quarkus-helloworld.apps.spolti.cloud             drools-helloworld-service   8080-tcp                 None

Reviewer: update the log with rules-quarkus-helloworld

```

Now, with the service address in hand we can test our service:

```bash
$ curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"strings":["hello"]}' \

>      http://drools-helloworld-service-rules-quarkus-helloworld.apps.spolti.cloud/hello

Reviewer: same here, update the log

```

As output you should see the following response:

```json
["hello","world"]
```

For more complex deployment, please use the [Kogito Cloud Operator](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-cloud-operator)

### Pushing the built images to a local OCP registry:

> To be able to build the image a docker should be installed and available on OpenShift before it can be used.

Reviewer: To be able to build the image, docker should be installed [...]

    * [Using Kogito Images to Deploy Apps on OpenShift](#using-kogito-images-to-deploy-apps-on-openshift)
        * [Using released Images](#using-released-images)
        * [Pushing the built images to a local OCP registry](#pushing-the-built-images-to-a-local-ocp-registry)
         

## Kogito Images Requirements 

To interact with Kogito images, you would need to install the needed dependencies so that the images can be built and tested.

* Mandatory dependencies:
    * Moby Engine or Docker CE
        * Podman can be use to build the images, but at this moment CeKit does not support it, so images build with podman
            cannot be tested with CeKit.
    * [CeKit 3.6.0+](https://docs.cekit.io/en/latest/): 
        * CeKit also has its own dependencies:
            * python packages: docker, docker-squash, odcs-client. 
            * All of those can be handled with pip, including CeKit.
            * if any dependency is missing CeKit will tell which one.
    * [Bats](https://github.com/sstephenson/bats) 
    * Java 11 or higher
    * Maven 3.6.2 or higher
            
* Optional dependencies:
    * [source-to-image](https://github.com/openshift/source-to-image)

>         * used to perform local s2i images uisng some of the [builder images](#builder-images)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        * used to perform local s2i images using some of the [builder images](#builder-images)
```

Here you can see that the build time has again been reduced.
If the maven mirror already have all the dependencies there, the build time can be even faster.

### Kogito Runtime Images

The Kogito Runtime Images have 2 behaviors:
* Run the artifacts built by the Kogito Builder Images
* Run your pre-built local artifacts, via what we call a _Binary Build_
For non-native built applications, they have a JRE installed to allow to execute Java applications.

With this approach, we can have smaller and more compact images that do not include any of the build tools or artifacts (like the local maven repository for example).

Today we have the following Kogito Runtime Images:

* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8](kogito-quarkus-jvm-overrides.yaml)
* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8](kogito-quarkus-overrides.yaml)
* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8](kogito-springboot-overrides.yaml)

#### Binary Builds

A Binary Build allows you to quickly copy the built locally artifacts into the target *Kogito Runtime Image*, 
saving the time needed to build the final image using the method with Kogito Builder Images.
Below are the supported source structure:

- KJAR Maven Project

> - Assets nly

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Assets only
```

Both methods will be described in the next topic.

##### KJAR Maven Project

[KJAR](https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2018/03/14/what-is-a-kjar/) stands for Knowledge jar which is a custom JAR file that contains Business Process or Rules and all needed 

> dependencies and or files to execute it on the target runtime, either Quarkus or Spring Boot.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
dependencies and files to execute it on the target runtime, either Quarkus or Spring Boot.
```

```

The most common sentences are:

 - **Then/And file {file} should exist**
 - **Then/And file {file} should not exist**
 - **Then/And s2i build log should not contain {string}**
 - **Then/And run {bash command} in container and check its output for {command_output}**
 - **Then/And container log should contain {string}**
 - **Then/And container log should not contain {string}**

CeKit also allow you to run a specific test, suppose you are working on a new feature and add tests to cover your changes.
You don't want to run all existing tests, this can be easily done by adding the **@wip** tag on the behave test that you
are creating.

Note CeKit allow us to use tags, it is very useful to segregate tests, if we want to run only the tests for the 
given image, we need to annotate the test specific or the entire feature with the image name, for example, 
we have the common tests that needs to run against almost all images, instead to add the same tests for every 
image feature, we create a common feature and annotate it with the images we want that
specific test or feature to run, a example can be found on [this common test](tests/features/common.feature)

> All images already have the feature files, if a new image are being created a new feature file will need to be created

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All images already have the feature files, if a new image is being created a new feature file will need to be created
```

            cannot be tested with CeKit.
    * [CeKit 3.6.0+](https://docs.cekit.io/en/latest/): 
        * CeKit also has its own dependencies:
            * python packages: docker, docker-squash, odcs-client. 
            * All of those can be handled with pip, including CeKit.
            * if any dependency is missing CeKit will tell which one.
    * [Bats](https://github.com/sstephenson/bats) 
    * Java 11 or higher
    * Maven 3.6.2 or higher
            
* Optional dependencies:
    * [source-to-image](https://github.com/openshift/source-to-image)
        * used to perform local s2i images using some of the [builder images](#builder-images)
    * [GraalVM 19.3.1](https://github.com/graalvm/graalvm-ce-builds/releases/tag/vm-19.3.1) Java 11 or higher
        * Useful to test Kogito apps on native mode before create a Container image with it.
    * [OpenShift Cli](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.3/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html)
        
        
## Kogito Runtime and Builder Images

Today, the Kogito images are divided basically in 2 vectors, when we talk about images that would be used to assemble 

> or run Kogito applications: Runtime image and Builder image. Those are described bellow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or run Kogito applications: Runtime image and Builder image.  
Those are described bellow.
```

### Kogito Builder Images

> The Kogito Builder Images are responsible for building the project with Apache Maven and generate the binary that will be used by the Runtime images to run the Kogito application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kogito Builder Images are responsible for building the project with Apache Maven and generate the binary that will be used by the Kogito Runtime images to run the Kogito application.
```

The current available Kogito Builder images are:

> * [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i](kogito-quarkus-s2i-overrides.yaml)

Reviewer: I would put the link to the quay.io website here.
The link to specific yaml files should be done into the contributing part IMO

Author: make sense.

* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8-s2i](kogito-springboot-s2i-overrides.yaml)

The Kogito Quarkus Builder Image allows you to create native image using GraalVM which allows you to have

> lightweight and fast applications ready to run on Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lightweight and fast applications ready to run in the Cloud.
```

#### Kogito Quarkus Builder Image

The Kogito Quarkus Builder Image is equipped with the following components:

 * GraalVM 19.3.1-java11
 * OpenJDK 11.0.6
 * Maven 3.6.2
 
For more information about what is installed on this image take a look [here](kogito-quarkus-s2i-overrides.yaml) in the

> **modules/install** section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**modules.install** section. 
```

##### Kogito Quarkus Builder Image usage

> This image contains a helper option to better understand how to use this image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This image contains a helper option to better understand how to use it:
```

```bash
$ docker run -it quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i:latest /home/kogito/kogito-app-launch.sh -h
```

By default, a native build will be performed. To disable it and perform a normal java build just set the **NATIVE**

> build environment variable to **false**. See the next topic for an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
build environment variable to **false**.

See the next topic for an example.
```

 

##### Kogito Quarkus Builder Image example

In this example, let's use a simple application available in the [Kogito Examples](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples) repository.

> Let's use here the *rules-quarkus-helloworld* example, with native compilation disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the *rules-quarkus-helloworld* example, with native compilation disabled.
```

Author: If remove the "let's use" with only "the" it looses context,no?

Author: ah right, understand on next comment

> In this example, let's use a simple application available in the [Kogito Examples](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples) repository.
> Let's use here the *rules-quarkus-helloworld* example, with native compilation disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, let's use a simple application available in the [Kogito Examples](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples) repository: the *rules-quarkus-helloworld* example, with native compilation disabled.
```

```

After the image is built, let's test it:

```bash
$ docker run -it -p 8080:8080 rules-example:1.0
 --/ __ \/ / / / _ | / _ \/ //_/ / / / __/ 
 -/ /_/ / /_/ / __ |/ , _/ ,< / /_/ /\ \   
--\___\_\____/_/ |_/_/|_/_/|_|\____/___/   
2020-04-08 18:59:57,753 INFO  [io.quarkus] (main) rules-quarkus-helloworld 8.0.0-SNAPSHOT (powered by Quarkus 1.3.0.Final) started in 0.839s. Listening on: http://0.0.0.0:8080
2020-04-08 18:59:57,755 INFO  [io.quarkus] (main) Profile prod activated. 
2020-04-08 18:59:57,756 INFO  [io.quarkus] (main) Installed features: [cdi, kogito, resteasy, resteasy-jackson, resteasy-jsonb]
```

In a different shell, try the following command:
```bash
$ curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"strings":["hello"]}' http://localhost:8080/hello

# the service will return `["hello", "world"]`
```

#### Kogito Spring Boot Builder Image

The Kogito Spring Boot Builder Image is equipped with the following components:

 * OpenJDK 11.0.6
 * Maven 3.6.2
 
For more information about what is installed on this image take a look [here](kogito-springboot-s2i-overrides.yaml) 
in the **modules/install** section. 

##### Kogito Spring Boot Builder Image usage

> This image contains a helper option to better understand how to use this image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This image contains a helper option to better understand how to use it:
```

```bash
$ docker run -it quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8-s2i:latest /home/kogito/kogito-app-launch.sh -h
```

##### Kogito Spring Boot Builder Image example

> In this example, let's use a simple application available in the [Kogito Examples](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples) repository.
> Let's use the *process-springboot-example*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, let's use a simple application available in the [Kogito Examples](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples) repository: the *process-springboot-example*.
```

```bash
$ s2i build https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples.git \
    --ref master \
    --context-dir \
    process-springboot-example \
    quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8-s2i:latest \
    springboot-example:1.0
```

After the image is built, let's test it:

```bash
$ docker run -it -p 8080:8080 springboot-example:1.0
```

In a different shell, try the following commands:
```bash
$ curl -d '{"approver" : "john", "order" : {"orderNumber" : "12345", "shipped" : false}}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -X POST http://localhost:8080/orders

{"id":"10de03c0-828f-4f2e-bb3f-68c3ddfea7ec","approver":"john","order":{"orderNumber":"12345","shipped":false,"total":0.4231905542160477}}✔

$ curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/orders
$ curl -X DELETE http://localhost:8080/orders/10de03c0-828f-4f2e-bb3f-68c3ddfea7ec
```

#### Improving Build Time

> The time needed to build the application is rather long. This is mainly due to maven downloading all dependencies, which takes several minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The time needed to build the application is rather long: this is mainly due to maven downloading all dependencies, which takes several minutes.
```

Author: don't understand why use ":" here

Reviewer: yeah you can skip that one

##### Using incremental builds

> If you are planning to build many times the same application, you can use the incremental builds which will improve drastically the build time.
> Let's start 2 builds with the incremental option enabled and compare the time spent to build each one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are planning to build many times the same application, you can use the incremental builds which will improve drastically the build time.  
Let's start 2 builds with the incremental option enabled and compare the time spent to build each one:
```

```bash
# First incremental build
$ time s2i build https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples.git \
    --ref master \
    --context-dir rules-quarkus-helloworld \
    quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i:latest \
    rules-example-incremental:1.0 \
    --incremental \    
    --env NATIVE=false
...
real	13m49.819s
user	0m1.768s
sys	0m1.429s
```

And now, let's run it again.

```bash
# Second incremental build
$ time s2i build https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples.git \
    --ref master \
    --context-dir rules-quarkus-helloworld \
    quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i:latest \
    rules-example-incremental:1.0 \
    --incremental \
    --env NATIVE=false
...
real	0m57.582s
user	0m1.628s
sys	0m1.123s
```

> In the second try, you can see the artifacts getting unpacked and reused from the previous build.
> Now, pay also attention to the time spent to build it. There is a big difference.
> In fact, an incremental build reuses the previously built image and it takes advantage of already downloaded artifacts.
> This can significantly improve the build time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the second try, you can see the artifacts getting unpacked and reused from the previous build.  
Now, pay also attention to the time spent to build it. There is a big difference.  
In fact, an incremental build reuses the previously built image and it takes advantage of already downloaded artifacts.  
This can significantly improve the build time.
```

##### Using a Maven mirror

> Another option is to use a Maven Mirror, this can be used together with incremental builds to speed up the build even more.
> To turn it possible we just need to set the **MAVEN_MIRROR_URL** environment variable when starting a new build, see the example below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another option is to use a Maven Mirror.  
This can be used together with incremental builds to speed up the build even more.  
To turn it possible we just need to set the **MAVEN_MIRROR_URL** environment variable when starting a new build, see the example below:
```

```bash
# Third incremental build, with Maven mirror option
$ time s2i build https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples.git \
    --ref master \
    --context-dir rules-quarkus-helloworld \
    quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i:latest \
    rules-example-incremental-1 \
    --incremental \
    --env NATIVE=false \
    --env MAVEN_MIRROR_URL=http://nexus.apps.local.cloud/nexus/content/groups/public
...
real	0m49.658s
user	0m0.968s
sys	0m0.539s
```

> Here you can see that the build time has again been reduced.
> If the maven mirror already have all the dependencies there, the build time can be even faster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here you can see that the build time has again been reduced.  
If the maven mirror have already all the dependencies there, the build time can be even faster.
```

### Kogito Runtime Images

The Kogito Runtime Images have 2 behaviors:
* Run the artifacts built by the Kogito Builder Images

> * Run your pre-built local artifacts, via what we call a _Binary Build_
> For non-native built applications, they have a JRE installed to allow to execute Java applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Run your pre-built local artifacts, via what we call a _Binary Build_.  
For non-native built applications, they have a JRE installed to allow to execute Java applications.
```

With this approach, we can have smaller and more compact images that do not include any of the build tools or artifacts (like the local maven repository for example).

Today we have the following Kogito Runtime Images:

> * [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8](kogito-quarkus-jvm-overrides.yaml)

Reviewer: same here about links to quay.io instead of yaml files (do that in contributing part)

* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8](kogito-quarkus-overrides.yaml)
* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8](kogito-springboot-overrides.yaml)

#### Binary Builds

A Binary Build allows you to quickly copy the built locally artifacts into the target *Kogito Runtime Image*, 
saving the time needed to build the final image using the method with Kogito Builder Images.
Below are the supported source structure:

- KJAR Maven Project
- Assets only

> Both methods will be described in the next topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both methods are described below.
```

##### KJAR Maven Project

[KJAR](https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2018/03/14/what-is-a-kjar/) stands for Knowledge jar which is a custom JAR file 
that contains Business Process or Rules and all needed dependencies and files to execute it on the target runtime, 
either Quarkus or Spring Boot.

If you don't have a already existing project, the best way to create a new one is to use Kogito Maven Archetypes 
to generate project structure, the available archetypes are:

- [Kogito Quarkus Archetype](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/tree/master/archetypes/kogito-quarkus-archetype)
- [Kogito Spring Boot Archetype](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/tree/master/archetypes/kogito-springboot-archetype)

> Note that, when building Quarkus based application that's **not** a *UberJAR* we also need to copy the **lib** directory
> located inside the *target* directory. Examples on how to use this feature can be found in the next topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that, when building Quarkus based application that is **not** a *UberJAR* we also need to copy the **lib** directory located inside the *target* directory.  
Examples on how to use this feature can be found in the next topics.
```

##### Assets only

This source structure assumes that there is no maven project but only business assets, stored either directly in the top folder 
or grouped into directories.

Types of Business assets can be:

- Business Process definition - bpmn2 or just bpmn files
- Business Rule definition - drl files
- Business Decision definition - dmn files

Upon build, these assets will be copied to a generated maven project and built with Maven to produce a runnable binary.

#### Kogito Quarkus JVM Runtime Image

This is a lightweight and it contains basically only the JRE. This Kogito Runtime Image contains only the needed files to execute a pre built Kogito application.

##### Kogito Quarkus JVM Runtime Image usage

This image contains a helper option to better understand how to use this image:

```bash
docker run -it quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8:latest /home/kogito/kogito-app-launch.sh -h
```

##### Kogito Quarkus JVM Runtime Image examples

> In the next few lines let's take a look on how this image can be used to receive an already built UberJAR.
> To configure Quarkus to generate a UberJAR please follow the instructions described [here](https://quarkus.io/guides/maven-tooling#configuration-reference)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next few lines let's take a look on how this image can be used to receive an already built UberJAR.  
To configure Quarkus to generate a UberJAR please follow the instructions described [here](https://quarkus.io/guides/maven-tooling#configuration-reference)
```

For this example lets use the [process-quarkus-example](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples/tree/stable/process-quarkus-example).

> Once you have checked the example on your local machine follow the steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have checked out the example on your local machine follow the steps below:
```

**Example with UberJAR**
```bash
# build the example using uberjar reference
$ mvn clean package -Dquarkus.package.uber-jar
# inspect and run the generated uberjar, for instructions on how to use this example see its README file.
$ java -jar target/jbpm-quarkus-example-8.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner.jar 

# performing a source to image build to copy the artifacts to the runtime image

> $ s2i build target/ quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8:latest process-quarkus-example

Author: unfortunately no.

Let's use this binary to perform the source-to-image build:

```bash
s2i build target/ quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8:latest binary-test-example
-----> [s2i-core] Running runtime assemble script
-----> Binary build enabled, artifacts were uploaded directly to the image build
-----> Found binary file, native build.
-----> Cleaning up unneeded jar files
...
---> Installing application binaries
'./process-quarkus-example-8.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner' -> '/home/kogito/bin/process-quarkus-example-8.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner'
...

# run the output image
$ docker run -it -p 8080:8080 binary-test-example-3

# on another terminal, interact with the kogito service
$ curl -d '{"approver" : "john", "order" : {"orderNumber" : "12345", "shipped" : false}}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:8080/orders

#repare the container logs the following message:
Order has been created Order[12345] with assigned approver JOHN
```

#### Kogito Spring Boot Runtime Image

This S2I is considered a runtime image builder as it relies on another image
(built with `kogito-springboot-ubi8-s2i`) that actually produced the binaries to be executed. 

> So this one will only get the binaries and place into the container.

Author: not really.

> On top of the OS it has JRE installed (OpenJDK 11) to be able to execute fat jar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Kogito Runtime Image has a JRE installed (OpenJDK 11) to be able to execute fat jar.
```

Author: change to the same sentence than the quarkus-jvm one.

##### Kogito Spring Boot Runtime Image usage

> This image contains a helper option to better understand how to use this image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This image contains a helper option to better understand how to use it:
```

```bash
docker run -it quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8:latest /home/kogito/kogito-app-launch.sh -h
```

##### Kogito Spring Boot Runtime Image example

For this example let's use the *process-springboot-example*: 

```bash
$ mvn clean package
```

> A uberjar file has been generated into the **target directory**.
> Let's use this uberjar to perform the build:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A uberjar file has been generated into the **target directory**.  
Let's use this uberjar to perform the build:
```

-----> Copying uploaded files to /home/kogito
---> [s2i-core] Copy image metadata file...
'/tmp/src/./image_metadata.json' -> '/tmp/.s2i/image_metadata.json'
'/tmp/src/./image_metadata.json' -> '/tmp/src/.s2i/image_metadata.json'
'/tmp/src/./image_metadata.json' -> '/home/kogito/bin/image_metadata.json'
---> Installing application binaries
'./process-springboot-example.jar' -> '/home/kogito/bin/process-springboot-example.jar'
...

# run the output image
$ docker run -it -p 8080:8080 spring-binary-example

# on another terminal, interact with the kogito service
$ curl -d '{"approver" : "john", "order" : {"orderNumber" : "12345", "shipped" : false}}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:8080/orders

#repare the container logs the following message:
Order has been created Order[12345] with assigned approver JOHN
```

## Kogito Component Images

The Kogito Component Images can be considered as lightweight images that will complement the Kogito core engine 
by providing extra capabilities, like managing the processes on a web UI or providing persistence layer to the Kogito applications.
Today we have 3 Kogito Component Images:

> * [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-data-index](kogito-data-index-overrides.yaml)

Reviewer: same here about links

* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-jobs-service](kogito-jobs-service-overrides.yaml)
* [quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-management-console](kogito-management-console-overrides.yaml)

### Kogito Data Index Component Image

> The Data Index Service aims for capturing and indexing data produced by one more Kogito runtime services.
> For more information please visit this (link)(https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#proc_kogito-travel-agency-enable-data-index). 
> The Data Index Service depends on a running Infinispan Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Data Index Service aims at capturing and indexing data produced by one more Kogito runtime services.
For more information please visit this (link)(https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#proc_kogito-travel-agency-enable-data-index).  
The Data Index Service depends on a running Infinispan Server.
```

> The [Kogito Operator](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-cloud-operator) can be used to deploy the Kogito Data Index Service 

Reviewer: move that part to the end of this section

to your Kogito infrastructure on a Kubernetes cluster and provide its capabilities to your Kogito applications.

Basic usage
```bash
$ docker run -it --env QUARKUS_INFINISPAN_CLIENT_SERVER_LIST=my-infinispan-server:11222 quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-data-index:latest
```

To enable debug just use this env while running this image:

```bash
docker run -it --env SCRIPT_DEBUG=true --env QUARKUS_INFINISPAN_CLIENT_SERVER_LIST=my-infinispan-server:11222 quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-data-index:latest
```
You should notice a few debug messages being printed in the system output.

To know what configurations this image accepts please take a look [here](kogito-data-index-overrides.yaml) on the **envs** section.

### Kogito Jobs Service Component Image

> The Kogito Jobs Service is a dedicated lightweight service responsible for scheduling jobs that aim to be fired at a given time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kogito Jobs Service is a dedicated lightweight service responsible for scheduling jobs that aim at firing at a given time.  
```

It does not execute the job itself but it triggers a callback that could be an HTTP request on a given endpoint specified

> on the job request, or any other callback that could be supported by the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the job request, or any other callback that could be supported by the service.  
```

For more information please visit this (link)[https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-runtimes/wiki/Job-Service]

> The [Kogito Operator](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-cloud-operator) can be used to deploy the Kogito Jobs Service

Reviewer: move that part to the end of this section

to your Kogito infrastructure on a Kubernetes cluster and provide its capabilities to your Kogito applications

Basic usage:

```bash
$ docker run -it quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-jobs-service:latest
```

To enable debug just use this env while running this image:

```bash
docker run -it --env SCRIPT_DEBUG=true quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-jobs-service:latest
```
You should notice a few debug messages being printed in the system output.

To know what configurations this image accepts please take a look [here](kogito-jobs-service-overrides.yaml) on the **envs** section.

### Kogito Management Console Component Image

The Kogito Management Console allows you to have a intuitive way to manage your Kogito processes in execution.
It depends on the Kogito Data Index Service on which the Console will connect to so it can be able to manage it.
Keep in mind that when using the [Process Instance Management Add-on](https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con_bpmn-process-instance-management_kogito-developing-process-services) 
it will enable your Kogito service be manageable through REST API.

> The [Kogito Operator](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-cloud-operator) can be used to deploy the Kogito Management Console

Reviewer: move that part to the end of this section

To work correctly, the Kogito Management Console needs the Kogito Data Index Service url. If not provided, it will try to connect to the default one (http://localhost:8180).

Basic usage:

```bash
$ docker run -it --env KOGITO_DATAINDEX_HTTP_URL=data-index-service-url:9090 quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-management-console:latest
```

To enable debug just use this env while running this image:

```bash
docker run -it --env SCRIPT_DEBUG=true --env KOGITO_DATAINDEX_HTTP_URL=data-index-service-url:9090 quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-management-console:latest
```
You should notice a few debug messages being printed in the system output.

To know what configurations this image accepts please take a look [here](kogito-management-console-overrides.yaml) on the **envs** section.

## Using Kogito Images to Deploy Apps on OpenShift

Once the images are built and imported into a registry (quay.io or any other registry), new applications can be built and deployed within a few steps.

### Using released images

As a first step, we need to make the Kogito Images available as Image Streams in OpenShift. If you have `cluster-admin`

> rights you can deploy it on the **openshift** namespace, otherwise, deploy it into the namespace where you have permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rights you can deploy it into the **openshift** namespace, otherwise, deploy it into the namespace where you have permissions.
```

rules-quarkus-helloworld-service   rules-quarkus-helloworld-service-rules-quarkus-helloworld.apps.lab.cloud                rules-quarkus-helloworld-service   8080-tcp                 None
```

Now, with the service address in hand we can test our service:

```bash
$ curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"strings":["hello"]}' \
     http://rules-quarkus-helloworld-service-rules-quarkus-helloworld.apps.lab.cloud/hello
```

As output you should see the following response:

```json
["hello","world"]
```

For more complex deployment, please use the [Kogito Cloud Operator](https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-cloud-operator)

### Pushing the built images to a local OCP registry:

To be able to build the image it should be installed and available on OpenShift before it can be used.

Suppose we have built the Quarkus s2i Image with the following command:

```bash
$ make kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i 
```

We'll have as output the following image:

```bash
quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i:X.X.X
```

> Then we need to tag the image properly, suppose your local registry is openshift.local.registry:8443, you should do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then we need to tag the image properly.  
Suppose your local registry is openshift.local.registry:8443, you should do:
```

```bash
$ docker tag quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i:X.X.X \
    openshift.local.registry:8443/{NAMESPACE}/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i:X.X.X
```

> Where the namespace is the place where you want the image to be available for usage.
> Once the image is properly tagged, log in on the registry and push the new image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where the namespace is the place where you want the image to be available for usage.  
Once the image is properly tagged, log in to the registry and push the new image:
```

```bash
$ docker login -u <USERNAME> -p <PASSWORD>  openshift.local.registry:8443
$ docker push  openshift.local.registry:8443/{NAMESPACE}/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i:X.X.X
```

To deploy and test the new image, follow the same steps as described [here](#using-released-images)

## Contributing to Kogito Images repository

> Before proceed please make sure you have met the [requirements](#kogito-images-requirements).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before proceed please make sure you have checked the [requirements](#kogito-images-requirements).
```

### Building Images

To build the images for local testing there is a [Makefile](./Makefile) which will do all the hard work for you.
With this Makefile you can:

- Build all images with only one command
     ```bash
     $ make
     ```
     
- Build images individually
     ```bash
     $ make kogito-quarkus-ubi8
     $ make kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8
     $ make kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i
     $ make kogito-springboot-ubi8 
     $ make kogito-springboot-ubi8-s2i
     $ make kogito-data-index
     $ make kogito-jobs-service 
     $ make kogito-management-console
     ```
     

> - Build and Push the Images to quay or a repo for you preference, for this you need to edit the Makefile accordingly:
>       ```bash
>       $ make push

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Build and Push the Images to quay or a repo for you preference, for this you need to edit the Makefile accordingly:  
      ```bash
      $ make push
```

      ```
      It will create 3 tags:
        - X.Y
        - X.Y.z
        - latest
        

> - Push staging images (release candidates, a.k.a rcX tags), the following command will build and push RC images to quay.
>       ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Push staging images (release candidates, a.k.a rcX tags), the following command will build and push RC images to quay.  
      ```bash
```

      $ make push-staging
      ```
      It uses the [push-staging.py](scripts/push-staging.py) script to handle the images.

#### Image Modules

> CeKit can use modules to better separate concerns and reuse these modules on different images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CeKit can use modules to better separate concerns and reuse these modules on different images.  
```

> On the Kogito Images we have several CeKit modules that are used during builds. To better understanding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the Kogito Images we have several CeKit modules that are used during builds.
```

- [kogito-openjdk](modules/kogito-openjdk): Provides OpenJDK and JRE.
- [kogito-persistence](modules/kogito-persistence): Provides the needed configuration scripts to properly configure the Kogito Services in the target image.
- [kogito-quarkus](modules/kogito-quarkus): Main module for the quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8 image.
- [kogito-quarkus-jvm](modules/kogito-quarkus-jvm): Main module for the quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-jvm-ubi8 image.
- [kogito-quarkus-s2i](modules/kogito-quarkus-s2i): Main module for the quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-quarkus-ubi8-s2i image.
- [kogito-s2i-core](modules/kogito-s2i-core): Provides the source-to-image needed scripts and configurations.
- [kogito-springboot](modules/kogito-springboot): Main module for the quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8 image.
- [kogito-springboot-s2i](modules/kogito-springbot-s2i): Main module for the quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-springboot-ubi8-s2i image.

For each image, we use a specific *-overrides.yaml file which will specific the modules needed.
Please see each file for the installed modules.

> - [kogito-data-index-overrides.yaml](kogito-data-index-overrides.yaml)

Reviewer: here I would reference the corresponding image

Author: In this case keep the yaml file is better since this topic is referring to the files so use/reader can check for more information about modules being installed.

Reviewer: it is just to have the mapping image <-> yaml file

Author: right.

The behave test structure looks like:

```bash
Feature my cool feature
    Scenario test my cool feature - it should print Hello and World on logs
  	  Given/when image is built/container is ready
	  Then container log should contain Hello
	  And container log should contain World
```

One feature can have as many scenarios as you want.
But one Scenario can have one action defined by the keywords given or when, the most common options for this are:

 - **Given s2i build {app_git_repo}**
 - **When container is ready**
 - **When container is started with env** \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;| variable&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;| value |\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;| JBPM_LOOP_LEVEL_DISABLED&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;| true &nbsp;&nbsp;| \
 In this test, we can specify any valid environment variable or a set of them.
 - **When container is started with args**: Most useful when you want to pass some docker argument, i.e. memory limit for the container.

> The **Then** clause is used to do your validations, test something, looking for a keyword in the logs, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Then** clause is used to do your validations, test something, looking for a keyword in the logs, etc.  
```

If you need to validate more than one thing you can add a new line with the **And** keyword, like this example:

```bash
Scenario test my cool feature - it should print Hello and World on logs
  	  Given/when image is built/container is ready
	  Then container log should contain Hello
	   And container log should contain World
	   And container log should not contain World!!
	   And file /opt/eap/standalone/deployments/bar.jar should not exist
```

The most common sentences are:

 - **Then/And file {file} should exist**
 - **Then/And file {file} should not exist**
 - **Then/And s2i build log should not contain {string}**
 - **Then/And run {bash command} in container and check its output for {command_output}**
 - **Then/And container log should contain {string}**
 - **Then/And container log should not contain {string}**

> CeKit also allow you to run a specific test, suppose you are working on a new feature and add tests to cover your changes.
> You don't want to run all existing tests, this can be easily done by adding the **@wip** tag on the behave test that you
> are creating.
> 
> Note CeKit allow us to use tags, it is very useful to segregate tests, if we want to run only the tests for the 
> given image, we need to annotate the test specific or the entire feature with the image name, for example, 
> we have the common tests that needs to run against almost all images, instead to add the same tests for every 
> image feature, we create a common feature and annotate it with the images we want that
> specific test or feature to run, a example can be found on [this common test](tests/features/common.feature)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CeKit allow us to use tags, it is very useful to segregate tests, if we want to run only the tests for the 
given image, we need to annotate the test specific or the entire feature with the image name, for example, 
we have the common tests that needs to run against almost all images, instead to add the same tests for every 
image feature, we create a common feature and annotate it with the images we want that
specific test or feature to run, a example can be found on [this common test](tests/features/common.feature)

For example, suppose you are working on a new feature and add tests to cover your changes. You don't want to run all existing tests, this can be easily done by adding the **@wip** tag on the behave test that you are creating.
```

> All images already have the feature files, if a new image is being created a new feature file will need to be created
> and the very first line of this file would need to contain a tag with the image name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All images have already test feature files. If a new image is being created, a new feature file will need to be created
and the very first line of this file would need to contain a tag with the image name.
```

> Example, if we are creating a new image called quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-moon-service, we would have a feature called

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if we are creating a new image called quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-moon-service, we would have a feature called
```

**kogito-moon-service.feature** under the **tests/features** directory and this file will looks like with the following
example:

```text
@quay.io/kiegroup/kogito-data-index
Feature: Kogito-data-index feature.
    ...
    Scenarios......
```

> For a complete list of all available sentences please refer the cekit source code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a complete list of all available sentences, please refer the cekit source code:
```

https://github.com/cekit/behave-test-steps/tree/v1/steps

#### Bats tests

> What is Bats tests? From google: Bats is a TAP-compliant testing framework for Bash.
> It provides a simple way to verify that the UNIX programs you write behave as expected. 
> A Bats test file is a Bash script with special syntax for defining test cases.
> Under the hood, each test case is just a function with a description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What is Bats tests ? 
From google: Bats is a TAP-compliant testing framework for Bash.
It provides a simple way to verify that the UNIX programs you write behave as expected.  
A Bats test file is a Bash script with special syntax for defining test cases.  
Under the hood, each test case is just a function with a description.
```

##### Running Bats tests

> To run the bats tests, we need to specify which module and test we want to run, to exemplify this let's execute the tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the bats tests, we need to specify which module and test we want to run.  
As an example, let's execute the tests
```

 ✓ test assemble_runtime with binaries binaries and metadata
 ✓ test runtime_assemble
 ✓ test runtime_assemble with binary builds
 ✓ test runtime_assemble with binary builds entire target!
 ✓ test handle_image_metadata_json no metadata
 ✓ test handle_image_metadata_json with metadata
 ✓ test copy_kogito_app default java build no jar file present
 ✓ test copy_kogito_app default java build jar file present
 ✓ test copy_kogito_app default quarkus java build no jar file present
 ✓ test copy_kogito_app default quarkus java build uberJar runner file present
 ✓ test copy_kogito_app default quarkus native builds file present
 ✓ build_kogito_app only checks if it will generate the project in case there's no pom.xml
 ✓ build_kogito_app only checks if it will a build will be triggered if a pom is found

16 tests, 0 failures
```

##### Writing Bats tests

The best way to start to interact with Bats tests is take a look on its [documentation](https://github.com/sstephenson/bats) 
and after use the existing ones as example.

[Here](modules/kogito-jobs-service/tests/bats) you can find a basic example about how our Bats tests
are structured.

### Reporting new issues

> For the Kogito Images we use the [Jira issue tracker](https://issues.redhat.com/projects/KOGITO) under the 
> **KOGITO** project, and to specify that the issue is specific to the Kogito images, there is a component
> called **Image** that should be added in this case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the Kogito Images, we use the [Jira issue tracker](https://issues.redhat.com/projects/KOGITO) under the 
**KOGITO** project.  
And to specify that the issue is specific to the Kogito images, there is a component called **Image** that should be added for any issue related to this repository.
```

> When submitting the Pull Request with the fix for the reported issue, for a better readability we use the following pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When submitting the Pull Request with the fix for the reported issue, and for a better readability, we use the following pattern:
```

> Create the Pull Request with the following pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Pull Requests targeting only master branch:
> ```text
> [KOGITO-XXXX] - Description of the Issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pull Requests targeting only master branch:  
```text
[KOGITO-XXXX] - Description of the Issue
```

```

> But if the Pull Request also needs to be part of a different branch/version and is cherry picked from master:
> ```text
> Master PR:
> [master][KOGITO-XXXX] - Description of the Issue
> [0.9.x][KOGITO-XXXX] - Description of the Issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- But if the Pull Request also needs to be part of a different branch/version and is cherry picked from master:  
```text
Master PR:
[master][KOGITO-XXXX] - Description of the Issue
[0.9.x][KOGITO-XXXX] - Description of the Issue
```
